# Array

An array in C++ is a collection of variables of the same type, stored in contiguous memory locations. Arrays are commonly used for storing large amounts of data that can be accessed and processed sequentially.

[Open in Playground↗](http://tpcg.io/6ZSIKU)

## Creating an Array

To create an array in C++, you need to declare the array and specify its size. The syntax for declaring an array is as follows:

```c++
type arrayName[arraySize];
```

Here, `type` is the data type of the array elements, `arrayName` is the name of the array, and `arraySize` is the number of elements in the array. For example, to create an array of integers with 5 elements, you would use the following code:

```c++
int myArray[5];
```

## Initializing an Array

You can initialize an array at the time of declaration by enclosing the values in curly braces `{}`. The number of values enclosed in the braces must match the size of the array. For example, to initialize an array of integers with values 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, you would use the following code:

```c++
int myArray[5] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
```

Alternatively, you can initialize an array to zero by omitting the values in the braces. For example, the following code initializes an array of integers with all elements set to 0:

```c++
int myArray[5] = {};
```

## Accessing Array Elements

You can access individual elements of an array using the array name and the index of the element. The index of the first element in an array is 0, and the index of the last element is `arraySize-1`. For example, to access the third element of an array called `myArray`, you would use the following code:

```c++
int thirdElement = myArray[2];
```

## Modifying Array Elements

You can modify individual elements of an array by using the array name and the index of the element. For example, to set the fourth element of an array called `myArray` to 10, you would use the following code:

```c++
myArray[3] = 10;
```

## Using Loops with Arrays

Loops are often used with arrays to process the elements of the array. For example, the following code uses a `for` loop to iterate through all the elements of an array and print their values:

```c++
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    std::cout << myArray[i] << std::endl;
}
```

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, we've covered the basics of arrays in C++. We've learned how to create and initialize arrays, access and modify individual elements, and use loops to process the elements of the array. With this knowledge, you should be able to use arrays in your C++ programs effectively.





#  Vector

A vector is a dynamic array in C++ that can grow or shrink in size at runtime. Vectors are very useful when you need to create a collection of elements and you don't know how many elements you will need in advance.

[Open in Playground↗](http://tpcg.io/60GJCK)

## Creating a Vector

You can create a vector in C++ by including the `<vector>` header and using the `std::vector` class template.

Here's an example of how to create an empty vector of integers:

```c++
#include <vector>

std::vector<int> myVector;
```

You can also create a vector with an initial size:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(10); // create a vector with 10 elements
```

Or you can create a vector with an initial size and a default value for all elements:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(10, 0); // create a vector with 10 elements, all initialized to 0
```

## Accessing Elements

You can access elements in a vector using the square bracket notation `[]`:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
myVector[0] = 1;
myVector[1] = 2;
myVector[2] = 3;
```

You can also use the `at()` method to access elements, which provides bounds checking:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
myVector.at(0) = 1;
myVector.at(1) = 2;
myVector.at(2) = 3;
```

If you try to access an element that doesn't exist using the square bracket notation, your program will crash. Using the `at()` method will throw an `std::out_of_range` exception.

## Adding and Removing Elements

You can add elements to the end of a vector using the `push_back()` method:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector;
myVector.push_back(1);
myVector.push_back(2);
myVector.push_back(3);
```

You can remove elements from the end of a vector using the `pop_back()` method:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector;
myVector.push_back(1);
myVector.push_back(2);
myVector.push_back(3);
myVector.pop_back();
```

You can also insert elements at a specific position using the `insert()` method:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
myVector[0] = 1;
myVector[1] = 3;
myVector.insert(myVector.begin() + 1, 2); // insert 2 at index 1
```

And you can erase elements at a specific position using the `erase()` method:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
myVector[0] = 1;
myVector[1] = 2;
myVector[2] = 3;
myVector.erase(myVector.begin() + 1); // erase element at index 1 (2)
```

## Iterating Over a Vector

You can iterate over a vector using a for loop:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
myVector[0] = 1;
myVector[1] = 2;
myVector[2] = 3;

for (int i = 0; i < myVector.size(); i++) {
    std::cout << myVector[i] << " ";
}
```

Or you can use a range-based for loop:

```c++
std::vector<int> myVector(3);
for (int i : myVector) {
  std::cout << i << " ";
}
```



### Modifying Vector Elements

You can modify vector elements using the `[]` operator or the `at()` function:

```c++
vector<int> v = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
v[2] = 10;
cout << v[2]; // output: 10

v.at(4) = 20;
cout << v[4]; // output: 20
```

You can also use the `push_back()` function to add elements to the end of the vector:

```c++
vector<int> v = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
v.push_back(6);
v.push_back(7);
cout << v.size(); // output: 7
```

### Removing Vector Elements

You can remove vector elements using the `erase()` function. This function takes an iterator that points to the element to be removed. You can also pass a range of iterators to remove a range of elements:

```c++
vector<int> v = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
v.erase(v.begin() + 2); // remove the third element
cout << v[2]; // output: 4

v.erase(v.begin() + 1, v.end() - 1); // remove all elements except the first and last
cout << v.size(); // output: 2
```

You can also use the `pop_back()` function to remove the last element of the vector:

```c++
vector<int> v = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
v.pop_back(); // remove the last element
cout << v.size(); // output: 4
```